# My Notes

This is the second app in series and it deals with the following lessons:
- **Colors**: The `Color` class is the primary class that is used to manipulate colours. We have a set of predefined colours that we can reference by the respective names (as a sort of wrapper for convenience). That is denoted by `Colors`.
- **Underscores in Variables**: In Dart, we use underscores for making a variable private to that particular class. Variables inside a function shouldn't use '_' for variables, since it is already private for that function.
- **Scaffold**: The Scaffold is designed to be a top level container for a MaterialApp. It is the top-level class, basically. Everything is heirarchially under it. Nesting it is not a good idea, no matter what the use case. The docs say this. We use a Scaffold for generating screens.
- **Initializing Firebase**: There are many different ways to do this. The simplest way is to make the initialization call in the main function before anything else. The `WidgetFlutterBinding` is used to interact with the Flutter engine. The `initializeApp()` needs to call native code to initialize Firebase, and since the plugin needs to use platform channels to call the native code, which is done asynchronously therefore you have to call `ensureInitialized()` to make sure that you have an instance of the WidgetsBinding. This makes the main function become `async`.
- **Routes**: There are 2 types: named and anonymous (these cannot be reused). When the app starts, it knows all the references of the named routes. It is added as a Map in the main() of the `main.dart` file as the `route` name (under the `MaterialApp` call) and the corresponding screen to call.
- **PopupMenu**: It is shown by tapping on `PopupMenuButton`. The items inside the popup menu are called as `PopupMenuItem`s. Here, we have a separate `PopupMenuButton` widget defined that has the `itemBuilder` property. The `onSelected` property takes care of the action getting executed when the item is clicked on. To define the identifiers of the `PopupMenuItem`s, we have used enums here.